welcome to another national trucking
tools of the trade
can you guess what we're talking about
in this episode of course you can cuz
you read the title we're talking about
GPS is yes is even a word that doesn't
sound right does it
let me shut off my truck click on the
bottle start going about turning okay
I'll talk about gps's now you can see I
got the round McNally 710 the newer one
is the 720 oh I absolutely love the Rand
McNally okay so but before we even get
into any of that tell you right off the
bat don't trust your GPS I don't care
how good it is or don't cause the GPS
got it don't trust the GPS alright so
the GPS is just a tool to help you it is
not a mapping device well it is a
mapping device but it's not one that you
should just rely on one gazillion
percent type deal another truck just
pulled up okay so so with the magic of
81 back you guys didn't even know I was
gone so there you go I know so before I
was already interrupted and I don't even
know where the hell I left off GPS is
yes so do not rely on them to be your
main source of finding your way into the
customer make sure you either a have a
map book or a mapping program on your
computer even the mapping program on
here is not too bad this won't tell you
truck routes and whatnot but always
double-check check don't just punch in
the address and follow it okay you can
actually zoom in zoom out of the map and
you know checked which way it's going in
see if there's a better way best way to
do it is old-school way call a customer
ask for directions
okay then double check it with the way
your GPS is going Oh scuse me my gosh
what the hell did I have for lunch
so yeah so you got to do that but now
getting yourself a good trucking here's
the other reason this is good other than
all these other fancy buttons is and I
don't even think it's gonna show up your
points of interest because of where we
are but let's see what shows up Travel
Center is probably not much now it'll
search and you'll see the radius that
it's gonna search possibly nope but just
came up so it's got a couple aww ROI
which is exit 55 it's just down the road
and then it just you know goes through
all the little truck stops around here
close spot this is this is huge right
here okay just this feature alone
and then there's also which we won't get
you've got the rest areas and parking
areas cat scales if you need to find one
even shows you do t weigh stations truck
dealers other repair or other categories
truck services which is repair
facilities I've never done the other
categories which is all these ones here
which you can find so there you go and
it has the tools where you can track
your your time and stuff like that if
you want
I don't rely on that at all but the main
thing is like I said the truck stops and
of course your mapping now another thing
that's great about this is you can enter
in every custom new customer you come to
you get to you enter it into the memory
of it so you know how to get back to
that customer if you ever you know a
month from now or whatever you all of a
sudden get to say yeah I've been there
before and it's in your memory you just
go through boom boom punch it in boom
you're there you're perfect you know
exactly where you're going right right
there you go and if there's certain
roads going into that customer that you
don't want the truck to go on the first
time you're in there you can block those
roads so that the GPS makes sure that
the GPS doesn't go that way so in that
sense it can be a really really good
tool but it is not your main source for
mapping okay do not use it like I mean a
lot of times you can see I mean if it's
straight just highway to highway boom
you there
yeah it's easy enough you but always
don't just punch it in and then just
follow the blue line and go sit there
you know do do the dragon thing and you
know check where it's going what routing
it's doing so let's just give you an
example here I don't want this video to
go on too long but let's just go here
we'll go choose destination and I'll go
to my address book okay so this is where
you guys will see and see I've got all
our customers here now we'll go sell it
on let's pick Dorval yard okay now this
is the best part because it's in the
address book you can already check but
if you just punched in let's say the
address because you don't have it in
your memory sorry guys so now it's in
you normally would just follow blue line
well that's not a good thing to do right
so you want to check to see so you just
zoom out and then you can go to where
you're going in and you can see which
way it's taking you in right to whatever
city you're going and to see if that's
an appropriate way to go in on I hate
when it does this now it's just gonna
take you in the quickest way or what's
the most practical way in practical ways
go up to 15 and then down to 40 but
anyone who's from this area knows that's
not necessarily the best way to go in
you know going down the 20 and up to 13
is actually a better way but a lot of
times I come in coming across the 138th
bridge which is a total different way so
by going into the area and looking at
the map of where it is it's going you
can say okay is the GPS way the right
way or is it the wrong way so hopefully
you guys get the idea
GPS is an awesome tool it is a must-have
nowadays a good trucking GPS if y'all
you were gonna get is a car GPS then you
know it's not necessarily as much of a
must-have but a good trucking GPS
there's a couple brands out there and
you guys got to decide which one is best
for you I like the rand mcnally just
because of the truck stop feature the
the rest area feature it used to and I'm
just gonna double check here because I
haven't done it in a while
points-of-interest quick stop's yes if
you press the quick stop so you want to
look for something close by to you it
even will search at Walmart's okay and
then you've got the major truck stop
chains for the US so that's only good
for the u.s. portion it shows the
Walmart's here in Canada too but and
some of the flying J's and stuff not all
of them are on there they're not 100%
up-to-date oh you even got a Walmart
close to a seat because there's a
Walmart no it's very good anything you
saw it so there you go we just want to
cancel that route anyways there's lots
of features here that are good for you
it is worthwhile investment however do
not use it as your main mapping device
use a map okay that's it that's all hope
you enjoy don't this help somebody out
talk to you later